- [Instructor] As we have learned,
filters decide whether a message
should be passed along or dropped,
based on some injected selection criteria.
Now let's build a filtering endpoint together.
We will initialize our project files for this lesson
with git checkout 03_02b.
Now in a previous lesson, we built a notification queue
so that our tech support service
can notify our user interface of required software updates.
What we want to do here is provide a way
for our tech support service to send a variety of messages
over the same channel, the TechSupportChannel,
with only software update messages
ending up in our notification queue,
there on line 17, updateNotificationQueueChannel.
And so the way to do that is to use Spring Integration
to configure a filter.
We will use the Integration namespace, the filter element,
and there are three attributes that are essential
that we configure here.
The first is the input channel.
We're going to set our input channel
to be TechSupportChannel, which was originally configured
on line 14 above in this configuration file.
We're also going to configure an output channel.
The output channel is going to be our queue.
So if a message gets sent on the TechSupportChannel
and it meets a certain criteria,
the filter will pass it along
to the updateNotificationQueue.
And we need to provide a reference
to our filter selection logic.
Let's just call that selector.
Close this element,
and now let's configure our selector.
We're going to give it our class implementation,
to be a custom class that we have built,
which I will show you in just a moment.
It's an inner class inside the StatusMonitorService,
and it is called ServiceMessageFilter.
Close this element, and that should do the trick
for our configuration.
Now I want to take a quick look at this class,
this ServiceMessageFilter.
ServiceMessageFilter extends TechSupportMessageFilter.
The TechSupportMessageFilter is the interesting part here.
The TechSupportMessageFilter implements a message selector.
There in line 12, you will notice the method accept.
That is the magic method.
Return from that value tells Spring Integration
whether or not to pass this message along.
It's a Boolean true/false,
and what we're doing here is we're delegating the answer
to the accept method
to be this abstract filterMessage method.
This filterMessage method is what we have implemented
over here in our inner class, ServiceMessageFilter,
and that's going to return a Boolean
and tell us whether the status on our message
tells us that an update is required or not.
That right there is the guts of how to construct a filter.
Let's finish this off by going to our ViewService.
We're not going to change a thing in our ViewService.
Our ViewService, if you recall,
is polling our notification queue
for notifications that it may need to act on,
and then here in our StatusMonitorService,
what we're going to do is instead
of sending a message to the updateNotificationQueue,
we're going to send our message to the TechSupportChannel.
We're going to send the very same message that we sent before.
We can simply cut and paste,
same message, different channel.
And if we got this right,
whenever our mock API tells us that we need an update,
that update is going to end up on our notification queue.
Let's start this and see what we see.
We're going to check the success of our work here
in the console, rather than in the user interface.
That's a little easier to do in this case.
So periodically, our API is going to come back and tell us
whether or not we need an update for our software.
Ah, we got our first one in the console.
Our API return indicated that a software update is required,
and we indeed did get a notification
on the notification queue.
Same situation for the second one,
but the third try tells us a software update
is not required, and that message did not end up
on the notification queue.
So there we have done,
what we have done is configured a filter
that causes specialized downstream delivery behavior
from our primary message channel
without modifying the existing behavior of that channel.